# Code for blade elements model of flying seeds

This is the folder containing the Python files that implement and use the simple blade elements model, as described in the articles. The code is written and tested for Python 2.7.12, on an Ubuntu 16.04 system. Several classical packages (including scipy, numpy, matplotlib) are necessary. Use throuhg a virtualenv is recommended (though not necessary).

Note that this is interpreted Python code. As a consequence, some of the scripts take a long time to execute.

Figures pop up during several of the scripts execution, as a sanity check for convergence and quality of the results. Close the figures by hand to continue computation.

# Organization of the folder

## Subfolders

- The **Figures** subfolder contains figures generated by the scripts, and some figure data.
- The **legacy_parametrization** folder contains the CL and CD parametrization that was used before some reviewers suggested the parametrization currently used. The qualitative results are the same, but the results are better with the parametrization recommended by the reviewer.

## Source files

Those are files that are imported by the scripts. These files implement the model described in both papers.

- The **lift_drag_coefficients.py** define the parametrization for the C_L and C_D coefficients.
- The **generate_seed_profile.py** file is used to generate the properties of the wings of the seeds.
- The **compute_force_on_seed.py** file implements the blade elements model.
- The **figure_2D_maps.py** file implements the production and analysis of the 2D maps for finding the point of equilibrium (stable descent). Can be both imported, or run to produce a 'typical' 2D maps illustration.

## Scripts

The other files are the main scripts used for generating the data presented in the article.

Note that, at the time when the code was written, the base angle (named psi in the current articles) was called alpha. This was changed later on in the articles to avoid name collision, but the code was not re-factored. Therefore, alpha in the code really corresponds to psi in the article.

